                                                                                                      Front End Offer

If you aspire to become a successful marketer, these are commonly used terms in the industry. So, let’s begin with defining Front End Offer. As the name goes by, it is something that is offered in the front end of the selling sequence and sales cycle. To make it simpler, let’s walk you through the Marketing Phases. Every marketing activity is divided into 3 phases. And the first and the most important phase is to Acquire New Customers.
Acquiring customer and increasing market capital is the most important goal of any Business in order to sustain in the long run. And this is the crucial Marketing Phase where you share the Front End Offer.

                                                                                                   Three Ways to Make Profit
 	
 For any business, the eventual goal with all marketing activities is to increase bottom line profits.
So without further a do, following are the 3 ways in which a company grows
1) Acquiring New Customer: We do this using Front End Offer. (More about it in the training video for Front End Offer)

2) Increase Repeat Purchase: Apart from that, the only clear way to scale a company is by having existing customers come back and buy back again and again. If you are dependent on new customers everytime, majority of your cost and time investment will be gone in acquiring new customers each time. Fun fact: 6 times less inexpensive to get an existing customer buy back.

3) Increase Transaction Size: Lastly, it is important to make sure you increase the transactional size for your customers.
This is something giants like Amazon, Flipkart etc do really well! So, that’s all on this topic. 	

                                                                                                         Back End Offers:

And before that, here’s a quick recap of Front End offers and the 3 Ways to Grow a Business:
1) Get New Customers
2) Get Repeat Purchases
3) Increase The Transaction Size
(Recap) Front End Offers: Something that is offered in the front end of the selling sequence and sales cycle. Very enticing for the end consumer.
So now, let’s understand back end offers! Back End offers are offers that help a Business increase repeat purchase. It is defined as any offer that gets an existing customers to buy again which brings in some profit into the business.

                                                                                                        Goals of Back End Offers:

The goal with the Back End offer is not to offer any steep discounts lie how we do with front end offers, but to actually make some profit. Front end offers are often very enticing offer which sometime lead to little or no profits. At times, they are even loss making. So to conclude, Back End Offers are designed with a goal to take the acquired customers a step ahead in the customer cycle and get them to purchase a product or service that brings in some profit.
Goals of Back End Offers:
Back End Offers:
Email on info@themarketingnerdz.com for more details. Ph: 8422906036
Learn the latest tools, techniques, and strategies of Digital Marketing from the CEO


                                                                            Examples of Front End and Back End Offer


In this training module, I am going to share some really great examples of Front End Offers and Back End Offers. The best examples of Front End Offers would be sites like Makemytrip and Goibibo.
These website offer first time visitors irresistible offers like buy 1 night, get 2nd night free, upto 70% discount on the second stay, etc. Even the Hotel Staff at the counter would never dream of giving you an offer like this. So why exactly do these websites provide you with these offers? It’s simple, these are nothing but Front End Offers to acquire the customers and get them into the customer purchase cycle. That’s not all, once you make the first purchase, they give you additional benefits in the form of membership points, coupons for next purchase etc. So where does the back end offers come into the picture? Well, once you plan to redeem their coupons and points, it will ask you to use certain amount of points, or coupons valid on stay worth xyz amount or valid for the next trip etc. Hence, use the remaining balance point, you keep going back to the website and keep making repeat purchase.

This is a great strategy to increase back end selling by offering these well-designed Back End Offers. They will keep throwing in enticing offers till the time you actually go and but and continue repeat purchase. Because when that happens, your Customer Lifetime Value increases which is what any Business aims to do. Customer Lifetime Value and Cost Per Acquisition are 2 of the most important marketing terms. More on CPA and CLV in the Finance module of TMN Prime. Till then, remember to create strategies with points, offers, deadlines, etc for your business to implement back end offers and get your customers come back to you again and again!

                                                                                                Competitor Analysis

In this training module of TMN Prime, I want to reveal the steps you can follow to do competition analysis.
This is one of the most important steps before you get into creating any kind of content or copy for our marketing campaigns. All you need to do is grab the best performing campaigns from your competitors. Sounds simple, right? So, here’s how can you do that:
1) Create a list of all the competitors in your industry that are doing well.
2) Go to their website and order the product or services they sell and check the marketing message that’s being shared throughout the process.
For example: If you are writing the email sequences for pre-sales and post sales for your client or yourself, here’s what you can do.
1) Subscribe to the email list of your competitor. So that way, you’ll start receiving all their pre-sales emails.
Similarly, once you purchase their product/services, you will start receiving their post sales emails.
2) Once you receive these emails, sit back and carefully analyse what they are trying to achieve through each of the emails. The content, the marketing message, call to action, etc.
Email on info@themarketingnerdz.com for more details. Ph: 8422906036
Mumbai’s Most Popular 3 Months Digital Marketing Certification Practical Based Course. For Students, Working Professionals and Entrepreneurs. The goal is to understand the “objectives” and “marketing messages” shared by the competitors that are performing well in your niche. Hence, if you have a list of the best performing competitors in your industry, you should do this too! Oh and yes, this strategy applies for everything from emails to ad copies to sales copies and all the other kind of marketing and sales messages shared.
So before moving on to the next step, combine and study all of the data carefully!

                                                                                                              Price Differential Strategy 

 The Price Differential Strategy and how it is an amazing Marketing strategy to increase your conversions.

Definition: Difference in pricing between 2 products. This can be either between 2 competitors or between 2 of your own products.

Most likely, this strategy is used when you are comparing and selling 2 of your own products.

So how does it work?

As we are all aware of, All Buying is Emotional. We never buy with 100% rational thinking.

For example: When you are buying your first expensive car, you are in a crazy emotional state.

When you are already paying Lacs of rupees to buy the car, spending an additional few thousands on car accessories does not look that big.

Thus, spending thousands of rupees (on car accessories) when compared to the spending of lacs on the car perceptionaly seem to be lesser than its actual value. And hence people would not be hesitant to make the smaller purchase of car accessories.

How to use the strategy?

To make this strategy work, always use/offer a high ticket product/s first. And then push or offer the smaller ticket product which seems percentionally lesser than the actual amount your customer would be paying.

But be careful!

Don’t use this in the reverse manner as it may have the opposite effect if you first offer your prospect a small ticket product and then ask them to buy a higher ticket product.

In this case, they will see a major hike in the amount they are paying. And hence, would be less likely to convert.

                                                                                      How to get clients with Cold Email Marketing -Part 1

What is Cold Email Marketing?
Well, it’s a technical term used in the digital word which means: Sending out emails randomly to people with a hope that they would become your clients for xyz service being shared in the email. So, let’s dive into the steps of how to get clients with cold email marketing!
Step 1: Do Your Research
Once you are clear with the details of your services i.e what would you are offering your clients and at what price point, etc, you move on to creating a list. This is a detailed list of all your potential clients you want to work with. Now the major question is, How to build this list? GOOGLE! Go and Google potential clients you want to work with. Go to their website or call them to grab their email id. So, step one is to build a database of your potential audience.

                                                                                     How to get clients with Cold Email Marketing -Part 2

In this training video of the TMN Prime module, we’ll dive in to the next step of how to get clients with Cold Email Marketing! So, here’s a quick recap: The first step in this process is to make a list of the email ids of your potential clients.

Once you have the list of targeted emails ready, here’s what you need to do:
Step 2: Research
In this step, you will do a complete research about the company of your potential client. When you are planning to send out cold emails to your potential client, always remember this: At any given day, a person like a CEO, Founder, Marketing Head, etc have their inbox flooded with n number of new emails. The box is cluttered with so many emails including important emails, very important emails, random emails, some directly asking for sales, some pitching in services etc. In such cases, random emails are sure to be pushed in the trash without giving it a read.
Which is why, you need to remember this important rule of marketing: Want to know the secrets of Copywriting and Learn how to write great Content?
– TMN’s 12-week Copywriting Online Certification Course.
Email on info@themarketingnerdz.com for more details. Ph: 8422906036
“You never start a relation by asking for something directly. Remember, the principle of Reciprocation!” Example: If you are providing SEO services, do a thorough audit of their website with the details of what’s flawed on their website. As part of your second step, you must do a thorough research of their website and make a list of the flaws related to your services or expertise.
So go ahead, do a research of your shortlisted potential clients and get back for the final step on how to get clients using cold email marketing.
 
                                                                            How to Get Clients with Cold Email Marketing – Part 3


In this training module, I reveal the last step on how to get clients with Cold Email Marketing.

So, once you have the list of email ids + have done a thorough research of the website, here’s what you need to do next: “Help You, Please!”

Sounds confusing? Well, here’s what it means! All you got to do in the 3rd and final step is to write an email with the above mentioned Subject Line!

(As one of the important Marketing Principle goes, the first thing you need to do is grab the attention of your target audience)
And with this subject line, you’re sure to do that. And the content in the
email is based on how well you’ve done your research.

Every point you noted during the second step of your research will be added to this email. Mentioning to your potential client about how you can Help them. But again, no one would directly like to know or be said what’s not right with their Business! Which is why, you can use this easy template to write your first email:
Hey Firstname!
I recently went to your gym to inquire about the membership. Firstly,I must congratulate you, it’s an amazing gym!
I wish I lived closer to the gym as travel is an issue for me at this point in time. But here is something which also struck me, since your gym is so good and more people should enrol your gym. While I was going through your website it did not have the right Title tags. Incidentally, I happen to be an SEO strategist. And I noticed that
if you add these three title tags + keywords + this meta description, and if you optimize it through URL you might end up ranking top in the google search.
I just thought to share this with you as I am a big fan of your gym and feel more people should know about you and join your gym. So I thought to drop in these points to help you out. In case you need my help I’ll be glad to do it, just feel free to call me!
Regards,
Name
Number
So, here’s the simple formula:
Grabbing the attention + Genuine praise + Building a genuine relationship by extending help + offering factual data and solution = non-threatening client communication through cold emails.
Once you follow this process as described, here’s what could happen:
1. The person thanks you and asks you to help them fix the problem. Of course, this opens up the door of conversations with them and increases the probability of generating business.
2. They do not respond. It is completely fine, not everybody responds. But the chances of response to such emails are much much higher. This is much more effective than random emails saying that Hey! we are the best best best and we want money from you because we are the best best best and that goes for the spam. Be different from those spammy emailers!
If you follow this process, you can expect to hit the following baseline numbers:
If you send 100 emails, you’ll convert 2. So, if you want 5 clients, send it to 250 people. Go out, do your math, set your numbers and start communicating + closing your potential clients







